manuscript/case1/README.md, before:

# Case 1: Training an existing (e.g. published) architecture on a different dataset

For this case study, we do the following:

1. Train and evaluate a published architecture on new data ([`1_train_and_evaluate`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/tree/master/manuscript/case1/1_train_and_evaluate))
2. Apply _in silico_ mutagenesis to sequences randomly drawn from the test dataset ([`2_in_silico_mutagenesis`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/tree/master/manuscript/case1/2_in_silico_mutagenesis))
3. Visualize the results of _in silico_ mutagenesis as different heatmaps ([`3_visualize_ism_outputs.ipynb`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/manuscript/case1/3_visualize_ism_outputs.ipynb))

The other directory included in the repository, [`visualize_ism_outputs`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/tree/master/manuscript/case1/visualize_ism_outputs), contains the PNG files generated by running step 3.

Finally, the file `download_data.sh` will download all the data and outputs required to run each of these steps.
The rest of this README assumes that you have run this script.
Any directories mentioned in the README that are not included by default should have been downloaded using `download_data.sh`.
We have included comments in that file with more information about what is downloaded. 
You can view the file names and some descriptions at [this Zenodo record](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1442434) as well.

NOTE: The steps that we provide in this directory use input data that was processed from Cistrome.
Please consult the methods section in our [manuscript](https://doi.org/10.1101/438291) for a detailed summary of what data processing steps were taken.
The code to implement these steps can be viewed in `data/process_data.sh` after running `download_data.sh`.

## Step 1: train and evaluate

We have provided an example SLURM script [`train_and_eval.sh`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/manuscript/case1/1_train_and_evaluate/train_and_eval.sh) that shows how we run training and evaluation on a GPU node, where batch computations are carried out on 2 GPU nodes. 
In this case, we are running Selene using [`../../../selene_cli.py`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/selene_cli.py) and a configuration file.
The CLI script should try to run the local version of Selene (that is, it works if you clone the entire repository and build the Cython modules using `python setup.py build_ext --inplace`).
In this case, the `selene-env` conda environment activated in the `.sh` script does not contain `selene-sdk`; instead, it contains all the dependencies of Selene (see: [`selene-gpu.yml`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/selene-gpu.yml)) as well as the `docopt` package (which parses the arguments for the CLI). 
If you want to use the installed `selene-sdk` package (through conda or pip), you can just move the CLI script outside the repository and run the code for a specific case.

The configuration file, [`train_and_eval.yml`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/manuscript/case1/1_train_and_evaluate/train_and_eval.yml) needs to be filled out with the absolute paths of all the data files before you are able to run training. The training data, sampling regions (`data/hg38_TF_intervals.txt`, lifted over from the hg19 TF regions in Zhou & Troyanskaya (2015)'s ENCODE/Roadmap Epigenomics data), and reference sequence (hg38) are all in the `data`
directory downloaded from `download_data.sh`. 

The outputs from training and evaluation are included in the directory `training_outputs`.

## Step 2: _in silico_ mutagenesis

The information in step 1 applies to this step as well. 

The input FASTA sequences were generated using a script in the `data` directory (see: last line of `data/process_data.sh`, `./data/get_test_regions.py`).

The outputs from _in silico_ mutagenesis are included in the directory `ism_outputs`.

## Step 3: visualize _in silico_ mutagenesis outputs 

Finally, a Jupyter notebook was created to visualize the outputs from _in silico_ mutagenesis. 
You should be able to run this with no modifications as long as `download_data.sh` was run beforehand.

Commit message:

update all the case study READMEs

manuscript/case1/README.md, after:

# Case 1: Training an existing (e.g. published) architecture on a different dataset

For this case study, we do the following:

1. Train and evaluate a published architecture on new data ([`1_train_and_evaluate`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/tree/master/manuscript/case1/1_train_and_evaluate))
2. Apply _in silico_ mutagenesis to sequences randomly drawn from the test dataset ([`2_in_silico_mutagenesis`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/tree/master/manuscript/case1/2_in_silico_mutagenesis))
3. Visualize the results of _in silico_ mutagenesis as different heatmaps ([`3_visualize_ism_outputs.ipynb`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/manuscript/case1/3_visualize_ism_outputs.ipynb))

The other directory included in the repository, [`visualize_ism_outputs`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/tree/master/manuscript/case1/visualize_ism_outputs), contains the PNG files generated by running step 3.

Finally, the file `download_data.sh` will download all the data and outputs required to run each of these steps.
The rest of this README assumes that you have run this script.
Any directories mentioned in the README that are not included by default should have been downloaded using `download_data.sh`.
We have included comments in that file with more information about what is downloaded. 
You can view the file names and some descriptions at [this Zenodo record](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1442434) as well.

NOTE: The steps that we provide in this directory use input data that was processed from Cistrome. 
Please consult the methods section in our [manuscript](https://doi.org/10.1101/438291) for a detailed summary of what data processing steps were taken.
The code to implement these steps can be viewed in `data/process_data.sh` after running `download_data.sh`.

## Step 1: train and evaluate
_Working directory_: `1_train_and_evaluate` 

We have provided an example SLURM script [`train_and_eval.sh`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/manuscript/case1/1_train_and_evaluate/train_and_eval.sh) that shows how we run training and evaluation on a GPU node, where batch computations are carried out on 2 GPU nodes. 
In this case, we are running Selene using [`../../../selene_cli.py`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/selene_cli.py) and a configuration file.
The CLI script should try to run the local version of Selene (that is, it works if you clone the entire repository and build the Cython modules using `python setup.py build_ext --inplace`).
In this case, the `selene-env` conda environment activated in the `.sh` script does not contain `selene-sdk`; instead, it contains all the dependencies of Selene (see: [`selene-gpu.yml`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/selene-gpu.yml)) as well as the `docopt` package (which parses the arguments for the CLI). 
If you want to use the installed `selene-sdk` package (through conda or pip), you can just move the CLI script to this case study's directory, update `train_and_eval.sh` with the new relative path of `selene_cli.py`, and run the code for a specific case.

The configuration file, [`train_and_eval.yml`](https://github.com/FunctionLab/selene/blob/master/manuscript/case1/1_train_and_evaluate/train_and_eval.yml) needs to be filled out with the absolute paths of all the data files before you are able to run training. The training data, sampling regions (`data/hg38_TF_intervals.txt`, lifted over from the hg19 TF regions in Zhou & Troyanskaya (2015)'s ENCODE/Roadmap Epigenomics data), and reference sequence (hg38) are all in the `data`
directory downloaded from `download_data.sh`. 

The outputs from training and evaluation are included in the directory `training_outputs`.

## Step 2: _in silico_ mutagenesis
_Working directory_: `2_in_silico_mutagenesis`

The information in step 1 applies to this step as well. 

The input FASTA sequences were generated using a script in the `data` directory (see: last line of `../data/process_data.sh` and `../data/get_test_regions.py`).

The outputs from _in silico_ mutagenesis are included in the directory `../ism_outputs`.

## Step 3: visualize _in silico_ mutagenesis outputs 
_Current file_: `3_visualize_ism_outputs.ipynb`

Finally, you can run the Jupyter notebook to visualize the outputs from _in silico_ mutagenesis. 
You should be able to run this with no modifications (independent of steps 1 and 2) as long as `download_data.sh` was run beforehand.
